# ADR-3: FastAPI Service Baseline

**Status:** `Accepted`  
**Date:** `2025-11-24`
**Decision Makers:** `Sina Naghipour`  

---

## Context
we needed to build fastapi services to have up and running services while each of them are in a seperate container.

Questions to answer here:  
- What are we trying to solve?  -> building a ecommerce microservice base services.
- What alternatives exist? -> monolith approach.
- Why is a decision needed now?  -> need to decide the architecture and the flow of development.

---

## Decision
In this stage we have built services needed to have up and running api without any database, and we did this by using microservice approach.

Questions to answer here:  
- What approach are we taking? -> microservice approach.
- What technologies, patterns, or methods will be used? -> we used `docker`, `pytest`,  `nginx` for reverse proxy, `fastapi`, and some more.
- How does this decision solve the problem from the context?  -> now that we accepted the pain of upfront cost, it is a piece of cake to develop it from now on, we can add databases, features, other functionalities much easier.

---

## Consequences
trade-off between monolith app and microservice is probably complexity, the ability to mange each section, testing them and etc.
Questions to answer here:  
- What benefits do we gain? -> easy to develop and test services.
- What costs, risks, or limitations are introduced? -> huge upfront cost, much more decisions to be made, etc.
- How does this affect future decisions or system components?  -> we can customize each service to what it actually needs.

---

## Alternatives Considered
monolith development of these services could also work, but we wish to use different databases based on needs of each service.

Questions to answer here:  
- Monolith - harder to maintain and customzie for each service.

---

## References
