# ADR-002: Architecture of API

**Status:** `Proposed`
**Date:** `2025-11-20`  
**Decision Makers:** `Sina Naghipour`

---

## Context
We are building an `Ecommerce API`.

Questions to answer here:  
- What are we trying to solve? -> trying to design a microservice based api.
- What alternatives exist? -> monolith approach is the alternative.
- Why is a decision needed now? -> blindly developing the api will `definitely` cause the project to not even finish for production.  

---

## Decision
I chose to use `microservice` approach to build my ecommerce api.

Questions to answer here:  
- What approach are we taking? -> We will use microservices.
- What technologies, patterns, or methods will be used? -> We will use fastapi as our backbone and mongo/postgres/redis for our databases.
- How does this decision solve the problem from the context? -> taking this approach would make our api follow open/closed principle, easy to test, and production ready.  

---

## Consequences
the upside of this decision of choosing microservice approach is that we could easily add more developers to it, but the huge downside for this specific project is the upfront cost.

Questions to answer here:  
- What benefits do we gain? -> fault tolerant services, easy horizontal scaling, and no downtime in this approach.
- What costs, risks, or limitations are introduced? -> huge upfront cost, for someone like me that is a beginner would run into multiple `DevOps` problems, and the risk of `over-splitting`.
- How does this affect future decisions or system components?  -> testing could be somewhat harder, managing requirements for each service and component is a headache.

---

## Alternatives Considered
We could go monolith with this software.

Questions to answer here:  
- Alternative A : Monolith – i would hope to build something that is easy to develop later on so building a monolith app where all code is cramped together and we could not diagnose each part separately doesn't sound like a good idea.

---

## References

[Problem Details](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7807)

This RFC was used for building [errors.md](../../api/errors.md)