# ADR-006: Deployment

**Status:** `<Proposed | Accepted | Deprecated | Superseded | Rejected>`  
**Date:** `<YYYY-MM-DD>`  
**Decision Makers:** `<List of people or roles involved>`  
**Related ADRs:** `<IDs or links to related ADRs, if any>`  

---

## Context
we have to make sure our app is running across all platforms not just our pc.

Questions to answer here:  
- What are we trying to solve? -> making sure our project is stand-alone and not dependant on any kind of operating system. 
- What alternatives exist? -> making it suitable for one operating system.
- Why is a decision needed now? -> because the project itself has been tested multiple times and we have to deploy it.

---

## Decision
we use nginx as reverse proxy and load distributer so that in a huge amount of load, our application's server would respond to each and every of them correctly.

each service is a separate container, nginx acts as both a gateway to our local docker network, and a load balancer.

Questions to answer here:  
- What approach are we taking? -> microservice approach to build a system.
- What technologies, patterns, or methods will be used? -> k6 for performance testing, docker for containerization.
- How does this decision solve the problem from the context? -> it makes sure our structure of responding to any request is tested and ok.

---

## Consequences

Questions to answer here:  
- What benefits do we gain? -> a system that could easily scale horizontally and vertically without any downtime. 
- What costs, risks, or limitations are introduced? -> huge upfront cost, may not be suitable for small projects.

---

## Alternatives Considered
monolithically developing our system, copying it into a random web server, call it a day.

Questions to answer here:  
- os depandant approach -> we want our system to be able to act standalone, this restricts us (also not 2025 enough XD ).

---