# ADR-008 : Scaling & Best Practice

**Status:** `Accepted`  
**Date:** `2025-12-30`  
**Decision Makers:** `Sina Naghipour`
---

## Context
our system has to tolerate huge load, so we have to config it using small parameters and add minor modification.

Questions to answer here:  
- What are we trying to solve?  -> system performance under huge load.
- What alternatives exist?  -> just make more container instances.
- Why is a decision needed now?  -> to ensure system is quite fault tolerant.

---

## Decision
apply DB pooling, rate limiting, redis cache.

Questions to answer here:  
- What approach are we taking?  -> using caches to lower response time, using rate limiters to limit access to hot URLs.
- What technologies, patterns, or methods will be used?  -> redis for our cache, pgbouncer as a gateway that handles DB connections for us.
- How does this decision solve the problem from the context?  -> for repetetive requests, cache makes it super fast to respond to requests.

---

## Consequences
Need to implement in a correct way or else it will just demolish our business logic.

Questions to answer here:  
- What benefits do we gain?  -> Super faster response time, when we hit cache.
- What costs, risks, or limitations are introduced? -> tricky to implement correct db pooling.
- How does this affect future decisions or system components? -> later on, we have to be careful of how we interact with our database using this new pooling system, so we dont lose the pooling system's advantages.

---

## Alternatives Considered
just creating more container instances.

Questions to answer here:  
- scaling only the container – on large scale apps, results in huge cost.